Definition format

The definitions.json contains a serialized Python dictionary. The dictionary
structure shown below defines the properties of and operations performed to
a spectral image cube. The description below has been extracted from a comment
in our spectral image processing code.

definitions = {
  'unique name of the output file 1 (key name)': {
      'reference type':   Optional str-field with allowed values:
                              'bright': this sample may be used as a bright
                                        reference sample,
                              'dark': this sample may be used as a dark-current
                                      reference sample.
                          This field must be present for reference samples.
      'reference spectrum file':
                          Optional pathlib.Path-object to the reference spectrum
                          of the bright reference sample. This field must be present
                          for bright reference samples. The file is expected to be 
                          a numpy npy-file containing an array with columns
                          [wavelength, reflectance] with shape (n, 2), where wavelength
                          unit matches the spectral image metadata, and the reflectance
                          is expressed in [0.0, 1.0] range.
      'preprocess': {
          'container':    A pathlib.Path-object either to a directory or a Zip-file
                          containing the raw spectral image file to be preprocessed.
          'file':         a str-object denoting the file path inside the container.
                          This must be in Posix-format, i.e., the the path separator
                          character is '/'.
          'use wl range': limit the preprocessed file within the given wavelength
                          range. The system will complain if the range is larger than
                          that of the spectral image. Tuple[min: num, max: num], optional.
          'rotate':       rotate the preprocessed spectral image cube's image plane by
                          X=n*90 degrees (i.e., the angle must be a positive or negative
                          multiple of 90 degrees). The current implementation calls
                          numpy.rot90 to perform the rotation.
      },
      'preprocess-tile-height': [
          ('name of the first tile', 0),
          ('name of the second tile', 100),
          ('name of the third tile', 200),
                          Preprocessing tool for vertical tiling of multiple pieces.
                          Used mainly for stitching together a reference sample. List
                          of tuples of form tuple[name of sample: str, start row for
                          copying: int]. Assumes all images have the same shape and
                          constructs a new image with the same shape!
      ],
      'flat-field correction': {
          'bright':       name of the preprocessed sample that is to be used as the
                          bright reference.
          'dark':         name of the preprocessed sample that is to be used as the
                          dark reference.
          'bright inset location':
                          location of the bright reference within the current image. 
                          Alternative for field 'bright'. It is an error to define both
                          'bright' and 'bright inset location' simultaneously.
                          WARNING! The marked area will be averaged (mean) into a single
                          pixel reference. Uneven illumination, lens system artifacts,
                          etc., must be handled with other means as this form of
                          flat-field correction will not fix them.
                          Field type Tuple[x: int, y: int, w: int, h: int]
          'bright reference spectrum file':
                          this field mirrors the main level "reference spectrum file"
                          field, which is an expected field for (bright) reference
                          spectral images. When "bright inset location" is used, a
                          reference spectral image is not referenced, but spectrum is
                          still needed and thus this field will be used to find the
                          appropriate reference spectrum.
          'clamp':        clip pixel values of the corrected image into [min, max]
                          range. Optional field with type Tuple[min: num, max: num]
          'scale':        scaling method for pixel values. Optional str-field, allowed
                          values:
                              'min-max':    scale the cube by its min-max values
                                            into [0,1] range.
                              '0-max':      scale the cube by its max value into [0,1]
                                            range.
      },
      'manual segmentation': {
          'container':    A pathlib.Path-object either to a directory or a Zip-file
                          containing the SpimLab manual segmentation file with name
                          mathing the name of this definition (key name).
      },
  },
}

